--
layout: post
title: 'Week Seven - Goodbye Exam One'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**
  This week was mostly about studying for the OOP exam for me. In class, we focused mostly on the aspects of pointers, references, and how the placement of consts affects them. It was wildly confusing in lecture, but the paintball analogy really helped when I sat down later and really tried to understand the material. I really wish I had made a habit of sitting down and reviewing the material after class rather than trying to understand everything right before the exam. Nonetheless, that is exactly what I did, and after studying for the exam, it felt like a sudden moment of clarity where everything just clicked together. Despite feeling pretty confident about how all of the parts of C++ worked, I still felt a little bit of unease during the exam. Downing had posted a rather extensive list of concepts to review for the exam, but it felt like the exam was really focused on about 15% of that list. Along with that, the format of the exam was kept rather ambiguous ("Would there be conceptual questions via multiple choice? Short answer response to explain a concept? Just pure coding? Implementation? Design?"), and I really didn't know what to place my focus on. Rather than giving a very general list of things to study for, I would've preferred if Downing had just simply said "algorithms," which would have emphasized a lot more focus on algorithms which is what I felt the exam did, and in focusing on algorithms, would branch out into other concepts as well albeit with less weight. Using Canvas as the testing platform (with its awful text entry where I couldn't even tab) felt a bit anachronistic when the class advocates modern tools all the time though I'm aware that it is an easy way to provide questions, create ease for the graders, and be easy to provide feedback. I wish we were able to use, at the very least, an external text editor such as Notepad or Sublime and then copy pasting it into the answer slots. Or a really neat idea for exams would be providing a framework/skeleton code for a program, and then giving the student the entire period to finish the program. Although I'm aware the logistics of that would be much more difficult to manage, I figure it'd be similar to how projects would be graded just on a much smaller scale, and we only have two exams in the entire semester anyway, so it wouldn't be too difficult to implement if the exams are all going to be short answer anyway. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**
  There just always feels like there's something to do. I could be studying for this or for that. This project or that. Apply for more internships, prepare for more interviews, work a little more on personal projects. Do volunteering work, clinical work, and shadowing doctors. Work in a lab and start research. Be the leader of some randomly passion-fueled club I could start. Sometimes, just thinking about it gets a little overwhelming - kind of like I'm expected to cure cancer and create the first true AI at the same time. So that every time I have a moment to spare, to breathe, I feel a slight pang of guilt. Every time I see that dust-covered book in the corner of my bookshelf I said I'd finish two months ago. Every time I see that half-empty notebook of poetry whose poems are littered across the notes of my math lecture notes. Every time I see the sketchbook peeking out from under the pile of lab notebooks whose last entry was dated in the middle of summer. I wonder sometimes, at what point did my decisions start feeling a lot less like confident, deliberate choices and more like accidentally wasted opportunites. Like some hillariously first-world rendition of Sylvia Plath's fig tree analogy from The Bell Jar. [Beautiful comic if you haven't seen it before!](http://zenpencils.com/comic/130-sylvia-plath-the-fig-tree/)
  
 ANYWAY. I'm sure you're not here for Tracy's weekly dosage of existential crisis cause we all have quite enough of that in our own lives. 

**What to do next week?**
  Well, for one, I have a stack-check for my OS project on Tuesday! So, I'll probably be working on OS for most of next week. Fingers-crossed our OS professor actually comes back from China so we'll see him for the first time in three weeks! On a different note though, thank you Dr. Downing and OOP for reminding me why I love CS and that I shouldn't just go be an Italian and Russian literature major who dabbles in the cullinary arts cause I think I might have just done that if I were just in OS.
To be fair, I completely understand why an OS course is required because it provides a lot of fundamentals and insight into concurrent programming, resource management, contention, interfaces, and just understanding that an operating system isn't just some magical voodoo happening in the background of your computer. BUT STILL, O'Halloran and Bryant, your textbook is as dry as the dining hall chicken breasts, and that's really saying something. Anyway, look at me going off on ranty tangents again, but that's okay, isn't that what a blog's for. 

I also have a math exam on Thursday, so I'll be studying for that in my spare time. Not too worried though! 

For OOP, I'll probably be trying to find a partner for this project. Cause it's pretty much just free points, why would you not. It'd be a tiny bit annoying coordinating group projects alongside OS though cause I only have so many hours free. Honestly, I just need to find someone who stays up as late as me, so it'd just be like if I were to work at 2AM alone. With that said, it wouldn't be the end of the world if I end up working alone though now that I feel much more comfortable with C++, and the project description (literally the one sentence) doesn't sound too bad. But I'm just fooling myself like I did with Netflix. 

Anyway, my friend's recently got me into website design, and I figured "hey, I should make a personal website as a portfolio for my projects!" So that's what I've been doing on and off. (I KNOW. I'M TERRIBLE. I HAVE ALL THESE OTHER THINGS I SHOULD BE DOING.) Which leads me to the tip of the week...

**Play of the Week**
  So, in my obsessive search for really cool website designs and templates, I found several websites which had parts in their framework that I really, really liked. So I just took their ideas, put them all in a blender, add a few drops of food coloring here and there, and whabam, a neat-o looking website that you can tweak a bit to your satisfaction and call your own (more or less). For pages where their page source don't directly lead you to all of the style and images and whatnots, and you just really want access to the entire website on the convenience of your local machine, you can just directly download the entire website structure using this tool!
  
[HTTrack](http://www.httrack.com/page/2/en/index.html)

It's pretty self explanatory. Just install it, put in the URL of your website of choice, and it'll download all the subdirectories connected to that page, and you'll be able to have the entire website on your local computer to browse and pick apart. Just remember to credit the author for any major designs if you happen to take a huge chunk of it (like the entire website design). Cause you know, that'd be a really terrible thing to do if you just took a design without crediting the author. 
