---
layout: post
title: 'Week Nine - HackTX Weekend'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  This week was spent finishing the Allocator project which surprisingly went a lot smoother than I had expected compared to the other projects! Maybe it was its simplicity in only have a single header file and test cases instead of a bunch of different ones. The workflow was also clarified this time because of the pinned post, giving me ideas on how to do the Travis CI (still wasn't quite sure if the instructors wanted the entire travis build history or just the final build of the version we're submitting). Although all of these workflows work, I would ideally like the TAs or Downing to come together and make an official statement on which is the preferred method. 
  
  In class, we're still touching on constructors and which ones are called when we use certain methods, especially in conjunction with an Allocator. Even though I've been having trouble on the quiz questions with constructors, I'm finally beginning to get a sense of clarity about how they work. I only wish that we had the discussion with constructors and how they interacted with allocators before the week of the project being due. 
  
  Besides that, I spent the last half of the week dying and finishing my OS project with user programs and system calls. I find that pair programming in large groups of 4 usually becomes hindering to me rather than productive, so I tend to break up into a pair of 2. The project was rather draining, and I didn't finish until the deadline (looking at you, multi-oom), so I had very little time to just sit back and relax until HackTX.
  
  Speaking of which, HackTX this weekend was really, really fun! I always have such a great time at hackathons. I want to go to more, but I always feel like it can be more trouble than it's worth when I have to travel out of state (I've heard horror stories from my roommate who went to HackMIT this year and got stuck at an airport for 12 hours). More on what we did for the hackathon below!
  
**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

  I'm a bit lost in OS right now, so that's a bit disconcerting considering that there is an OS exam coming up very soon. Honestly, every single time after I finish an OS project, it just feels like an affirmation of how much systems is just simply not for me. Nonetheless, I'd be a liar if I said I didn't learn a lot from doing these projects. 
  
  I'm a bit worried about making a schedule for next semester too. Still haven't actually taken a look at that yet, and registration starts very, very soon, haha. I also really want to look into studying abroad programs for CS, but I haven't really had a chance to visit the office yet. SOOOOOOOOON. 

**What to do next week?**

  I definitely need to get started on the Darwin project because I'll be out of town this weekend, and the OS exam is the week after that. And I need to get started on the OS project. Oh boy, just things everywhere all the time. Also, I'll be working on submitting applications for internships since I'd really like to get one for this summer. 
  
  Because of the hackathon, I'm feeling very motivated and inspired to work on a visualizer idea of mine for music where it'll turn music into game entities with stats and have them interact a la RPG style. So I might be looking into that!

**Play of the Week**

My tip for this week is to go to hackathons! I always feel like I come out of them with so much more experience than I had come in with. And it's always so much fun to spend 24 hours with a group of friends doing the things you love. 

I try to go out of my comfort zone when I do a project at hackathons so that I can just expand my breadth of knowledge (perhaps at the cost of depth), so this time I mainly focused on front-end work that used entirely Javascript (oh boy, I hadn't touched Javascript in a loooong while). We decided to do a project that didn't really use any of the challenger's APIs because we felt that most of them catered towards computer vision/machine learning applications that would take us a lot longer than 24 hours to really make a satisfactory prototype, so we leaned towards a game instead!

For my group's project, we designed a game entirely in Javascript using MatterJS to simulate physics and Pixi for graphics rendering. The main purpose was to create an accessible rocket-based game that would expose certain parts of its code to the user to program which would allow manipulations of attributes such as thruster power, directional sensors, fuel calculations, and etc (simulating an injection attack except deliberately). This would allow the player to play around with the JS code until they were familiar enough with it to possibly realize how much limitless power we were allowing them. Of course, this does come with some protections so that the game itself doesn't become absolutely broken (no, you can't just have infinite power in your thruster and teleport to the end of the game). Yes, you can write a detailed algorithm to make the rocket use its sensors to detect angle, altitude, position, and more to do minute adjustments with thrusters so that the rocket fixes itself upon colliding with asteroids. 

Because the game is made in discrete parts, it is extremely scalable. We can simply add in more parts whenever we want, add in sprites to replace the grid system, adjust the interface with more functionality because of a state management system, etc. Hopefully, we'll work on it as a hobby together and at least fully finish the graphics for it and do quality of life patches.

[November Sky](http://nondefault.net/november/)

Check out the working prototype we presented at HackTX right above, hosted on one of our personal servers!

Extremely proud of my team for staying up literally ALL NIGHT with me and working on this together to come in #2 for HackTX! WE DID IT BOYS. (I'm sorry I was distracted half of the time because of League's World Championships, gg Korea)
