---
layout: post
title: 'Week One - Hello OOP, My New Friend'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

For context, the first week (well, half-week, really) feels a whole lot like returning to an old home after spending a decade away. Nostalgia from the past year still lingers in the air, yet there's a subtle incongruity that permeates the campus. Perhaps it's the tension from the concealed carry law that just passed. Maybe it's the increasingly polemic upcoming election. Or something else entirely. Either way, home doesn't quite feel like it belongs to any of us anymore.

Anyway, in regards to the class, I wasn't sure what to really expect. I had heard from the reviews that the professor was unaminously considered one of the best in the department, his classes influencing their work ettiquette and way of thinking for long after graduation instead of just being that one mandatory class that everyone would take in order to get their degree. (I promise I'm not simply trying to flatter you, Dr. Downing, just stating what I've found). 

Thus far, I'm impressed by his teaching methods. I've always been a detail-oriented person, wanting to know what happens in every single line of code instead of being satisfied with just the big picture. Dr. Downing thoroughly went through snippets of code this week, line-by-line, addressing the nuances between Java and C++: what a preprocessor does, what the __using__ declaration does, and more. After the first day, I absolutely knew I had to go home and refresh my knowledge of C++ to the level of detail that he would expect. His usage of quizzes in the beginning of class is effective in producing a high rate of attendance as well as information retention, rewarding students who revisit concepts discusssed in the last class and solidifying their knowledge. Most importantly, I'd be lying if I said I'm not the type to usually drift off in the middle of class, but Dr. Downing randomly calls on students from his roster not to simply answer a question but to actually discuss the question with him, allowing him to clarify concepts that the class might have misconceptions about. It's a double-edged blade. On one hand, it keeps me more attentive than normal during class as well as encourages me to really understand the material at a more analytical level, but on the other hand, I get a little heart attack every time a question comes up that I don't know the answer to while he's in the process of picking a victim. It's absolutely great. I'm very excited for the projects to be released, so I could have a better idea of what to really focus on.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

The only thing that I'm really worried about is taking 17 hours this semester (of which include OOP and OS). As much as I enjoy doing little projects in my free time, I'm not entirely sure how heavy the workload will feel with the estimated 20-40 hours of programming per week in OS (an optimistic estimation, Norman says) along with the estimated 20 hours for OOP. I know I can definitely survive, but I'm a little uncertain as to whether or not I'll thrive. Other than that, I'm relatively inexperienced when it comes to C++, so I'll be trying to amend that and continue to learn the language on my own time.

**What to do next week?**

Again, it's only the start of the class, so I have a rough idea of what the class is like, but there's no other way to gauge how much time should be dedicated to it. I'll be refreshing my knowledge of C++ as well as familiarizing myself with the tools that Dr. Downing have given. I will also plan on doing all of the readings ahead of time and skimming over them throughout the week to coordinate and connect them with his lectures in class. 

****Play of the Week****

I'm not sure how familiar everyone is with the gaming industry, but if you're a PC gamer, you've surely heard of the very hyped game known as No Man's Sky that was released about a week ago on the PC. Now, I'll leave the quality of the game itself (COUGH, FALSE PROMISES AND DISAPPOINTMENT, COUGH) alone because this isn't a game review. Instead, I'll be focusing on the disaster that was its launch day on Steam and its questionable technical decisions that could have easily been prevented (or call it hindsight bias if you'd rather).

On launch, not only was the game horribly unoptimized and full of memory leaks that even the beefiest gaming rigs (i7, Titans, a buhzillion RAM, and what have you) couldn't run it without some forms of stuttering. A lot of customers couldn't even get the game to make it to the main menu without crashing to the desktop and in some cases, giving them a blue screen of death. 

If you take a careful look at the game's development, I believe that they failed in testing their game at all on the PC. The initial release failed to come with visual C++ redist which caused a bunch of .dll errors (to be honest, almost every computer should already have this, but it's common practice to include with a game installation). The game was written to support CPUs that supported SSE 4 (which only CPUs in the last year or two fully supported up to 4.1) and even then, some of those CPUs had problems. Older CPUs such as AMD Phenoms II didn't work at all, but none of these details were specified in their initial minimum requirements, so they had to go back and rewrite the game to support legacy SSE. The studio also chose to opt for OpenGL in all of this instead of DirectX which created even more issues with GPUs and created a lot more of unnecessary framerate drops due to the lack of drivers for the GPUs because they failed to provide GPU companies an early copy of the game to test drivers for. All of this, along with the lack of response to their customer base as well as failure to accept responsibility of their blatantly false marketing has led to a huge drop in sales in the first week as well as a large percentage of refunds from unhappy customers. 

A real life example of really testing your programs and making sure you cover a healthy percentage of cases and  written code (as well as hardware, in this case).

Excited to see what the next week brings!
