---
layout: post
title: 'Week Eight - Allocating my Schedule'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  This week was mainly focused on working through what the structure of a heap container would look like. I never really understood the purpose of a sentinel and the difference between a sentinel and a null byte when it comes to managing blocks of memory, but after getting started on this allocator project and working through examples in class with Downing, I'm beginning to understand the structure a lot more. Besides that, I've gotten started on the Allocator project this week and plan to finish it up sometime early this week. Most of this week was spent studying for my last (bless rito) midterm, so now I can actually focus on doing projects and reading about general software things that interest me.    

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

  Honestly, I've fallen into a pretty comfortable pace with all my classes now, so the only thing I have to worry about this week would be getting the Allocator project out of the way so I can have more of a rigid schedule to meet up with my OS group and finish the project which is also due this Friday. Besides that, I'd like to get more practice with solving problems in general so I can feel more confident about approaching technical interviews (still have the cracking book to read through). A lot of the times, I suddenly realize that I have a relatively poor understanding of data structures in comparison to other people, especially when structures get placed within other structures, and then I get extremely confused, so I would really like to practice visualizing and becoming more comfortable with structures in general. Except cons, I'm pretty awesome with those.

**What to do next week?**

  Like I've said, this week will be focused on finishing up my two big programming projects: the allocator for OOP and the user programs for OS. I will also be working and communicating with my group in order to prepare for HackTX this weekend which I've been pretty excited for. I went last year, and it was honestly a complete blast. I felt like I learned a lot about working with provided hardware API's that I probably never would have had I not been given the hardware itself for a trial period. 

**Play of the Week**

  If anyone else is interested in security stuff, I've found this page of cryptopgraphy related problems a while back, and I'm about a quarter of the way from finishing, but the problems get relatively difficult towards the end (or at least, I think so, having never taken a formal cryptography class :P). I always love finding problems where I have no idea what's going on, so then I can spend the day googling my problems away. They also have a tutorial on the very basic basics of each section to give you a nice little intro into what the problems will be like.  Have fun!
  
[Cryptography Problems](https://id0-rsa.pub)
