---
layout: post
title: 'Week Five - Netflix, ya need some chill'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

Remember last week when I was all innocent and naive, so excited to start on the Netflix project? Well, one all nighter later on Wednesday, I'm afraid I no longer feel the same way. In part, that's my fault for vastly underestimating how long the project would take and how annoying debugging a program I had to create on my own would be. There were so many problems that arose that I didn't even think would. They always said to take Murphy's Law into account, oops. I really wish I had gotten a partner for this project, if only to just bounce ideas off of them instead of jumping around and asking random people questions and bothering them the entire day (thank you for dealing with my fundamentally flawed understanding of maps, you know who you are). So, the design process was pretty much a mess at the beginning, and took me hours to flesh out which structures I wanted to store my data in to keep run time under a minute as well as reading documentation on how to use those structures. I think I understand maps pretty well now, but I don't know if I still really know the difference between an array and a vector. The general unfamiliarity with cpp in addition to workflow woes like Travis CI refusing to run anything with valgrind, adjusting the makefile, bad travis.yml's, replicating caches in the unit tests, and boost in general (I totally gave up with boost) ended up with me doing a lot more googling and studying of documentation than any actual implementation and programming for the project. All in all, a very satisfying project once I finished it (the crippling fatigue afterwards is a very good sign). 

Other than the project, it was a pretty fun week with a guest speaker presentation from JPL about the usage of the Microsoft HoloLens to recreate the surface on Mars using pictures taken from the Rover. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

I still have the OS project 1 (yay pintos) looming over my head that's due this Friday. I also have several exams this week that I need to really hunker down and study for, so I'm not really sure how balance study time against project time. I think I'll just gradually work on the project but focus mainly on the exam, then just cram the last 48 hours I have into the project to finish it off. 

Other than that, I think I'm going to start populating my GitHub with personal projects and just random problems from sites like Euler and UVA in order to practice coding more. 

And if I could stop being sick, that would be excellent. 

**What to do next week?**

Right now, just study and study and study. And do the OS Project. Also papers are due. And sleep. And hopefully eat too. Maybe apply for internships online after this week once I have time to just go through a bunch of websites and send them my applications. 

**Play of the Week**

As you may remember, I'm a new fan of sftp for the terminal. Now, as my OS class has begun to get into the infamous Pintos projects which is almost impossible (so I've heard) to install on your own machines, there is a much increased usage of ssh and the lab machines in the GDC. Because I'm lazy and really don't want to live in the lab (I honestly kind of miss the GDC because I haven't had a class there in like a year), I've found a workflow that allows easy editing of the files remotely that will also allow you to compile on the machines through ssh. I'm very unfamiliar with vim and emacs, so I'm afraid I'm sticking with Sublime for the time being. 

Anyway, first, your Sublime on your local machine needs to have the package control installed which you can easily do here.

[Package Control Installation](https://packagecontrol.io/installation)

Then, simply run the Package Control: Install Package command from Sublime by using the command pallette. 

And the rest of the information will be provided for you through the instructions screen.

If you're really lazy to read though, then simply fill out the config file with your ssh info.
Create a remote folder that you'll sync to your project folder remotely (I just made my entire folder pintos). 
If you're feeling spiffy, you can even sync that folder to a GitHub repo. 

Then, boop! Code away. Pintos away. Ssh away. Life will be great, doing your OS project from the sweet comfort of home. 

