---
layout: post
title: 'Week Four - Netflix, just give back Doctor Who'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

The Netflix project was introduced this week, and I'm honestly very happy with the direction the projects heading in. The first one was theoretically simple, but it had more complex nuances to it, depending on how far you wanted to take the optimizations. Now, this one stepped a little outside of the workflow of Github and had us heading towards the lab machines instead due to the size of the files. I'm quite a fan of having a normal workflow that we could just follow as a standard, but seeing how different the two projects will be in terms of workflow is quite exciting. It lets us learn how to adapt to new tools and new details which I believe will be an essential skill in industry and life in general. More over, the middle of the week had a UT grad who works at Bloomberg come give a talk about his experience in industry, and it was very interesting to see a slice of what life could be in the near future. Besides that, we went over pointers, references, and addresses again, and it was quite interesting to implement a simple function in class as well as using generic types to standardize implementations. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

I still need to go buy that OOP textbook. Ha. Ha. Ha. A bit worrisome because the next chapter is used this week, but maybe I'll see if I can just borrow a friend's until my book arrives.

As for other problems, I think the only thing I'm really worried about is getting started on the Netflix project. I'm debating working in pairs or alone because my class days are usually long and of extracurriculars, and I schedule my more free class days to work on my OS project with my group. As much as I'd like a partner for the project, I'm a bit of a night owl, so unless someone wants to work on it together at 3AM at night, I feel like it'd be more efficient to work alone for the sake of convenience. I'll give it a try this project, and if that is just horribly difficult, then I'll rearrange my schedule a bit to accomodate for a partner next project. Even though the studies on pair programming show that it's just more efficient, I still enjoy going at my own pace and fully absorbing all of the nuances of a project.

**What to do next week?**

Start on the Netflix project for sure! If not, at the very least, I need to do all the reading on it as far as the instruction page, the piazza posts, and have a design idea in mind for what I'll want to do. From what I've been reading, the workflow sounds even more annoying than last project, so I'll definitely want to get comfortable with that as soon as I can. If not for my sake, then for the quizzes because I have a feeling there'll at least be one question about the project this week. Still need to practice more with C++. Maybe I'll do a mini-problem each day with C++ and put it on my Github as well as have a more weekly or monthly focused personal project, but then I'd be inclined to do those projects in something I'm more comfortable with like Python. But...the practice! We'll see. 

**Play of the Week**

Maybe I'm just very out of the loop, but my roommate told me about sftp as I was getting extremely annoyed with using scp to copy files over from my local directory to the lab machines through ssh. I just had to transfer multiple files and folders, and it was getting extremely tedious to go back and forth between the two as well as typing everything out for transferring into different directories. 

Sftp allows you to navigate between both your local and remote machines with simply using an extra "l" before your command to navigate your local directory vs the remote directory. So, for example, "lls" would list everything in the local directory while "ls" would do the same for the remote. This way, for simple navigation, you could theoretically just retrieve folders and files with the get command while sending files with the put command which makes life just a little bit simpler. I'm sure there's more ways to use it, but for now, I've only used the get and put. 
