---
layout: post
title: 'Week Twelve - Life is Hard'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  This week was relatively project-heavy for me instead of having a lot of exams and other works to focus on. For the most part, I drew up the design plans for Life this week with my partner, so we have a pretty good idea of how we're going to implement Life. However, there are still a couple of nuances of inheritance that I'm still not exactly clear on, but we're slowly going through that in class. As always, this week's quizzes consisted of constructors and what they do when they're invoked, especially focusing on the idea of inheritance. It's really interesting to note that child classes exhibit refinement overriding (which means it also calls the parents - man, wish I knew that for Monday's quiz but now I know). I was planning on attending MLH Prime this weekend, but virtual memory just kind of hates me, so there's that.
  
**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

  Super happy about getting into software engineering for next semester! I'm not sure if that should be under this category or not, but I'm goona put it here anyway. That's one thing off my mind as far as the future goes. I don't really have anything I'm all that worried about now that the current OS project has finished. I just need to make sure I understand all the concepts we cover in OOP this week. Maybe I should start taking down notes because I'm not all too sure which notes Downing actually posts compared to the ones that he writes in class. 

**What to do next week?**

  Work on Life. Math exam! Study study study. Code code code. Thinking about starting a new personal project with a Spotify API.

**Play of the Week**

  If you've caught my tip from a few weeks ago, I really liked SFTP which I then found an extension for it through Sublime to make my life easier for OS. It's pretty much a remote-mapping system that automatically syncs a local folder to a remote folder somewhere, so you can easily edit files at home on Sublime and compile Pintos without having to trek all the way to the computer lab (which I admit I've grown fond of). 
  
  Anyway, an alternative to that that my friend has shown me is called CyberDuck which essentially does the same thing except it's all contained within its own software container instead of just being a plugin for some other text editor like Sublime. Check it out if you need an remote-mapping software to make your OS life easier.
  
  [Cyberduck](https://cyberduck.io/?l=en)
