---
layout: post
title: 'Week Fourteen - The End'
published: true
---
**The Downing Experience**

Whew, it's been a wild experience in this class (hey guys, I'll just give you a tip, please don't take this along with a project heavy course (like OS) like I did unless you're extremely confident in your programming skills or you just like spending way too much time in the lab. 

I came into this class knowing very little to none of C++, no idea what the heck this mystical "object-oriented programming" was, and a light cynicism about the CS courses I've taken so far in terms of lecture style. Wow, I am glad to say that my expectations were wildly exceeded and then some. 

The course focused heavily on the details and nuances of C++ (and programming in general) that would make or break code. It was wonderful to have a professor appreciate these nuances and explain them as well as be able to answer any questions with clarity. I struggled with a lot of the concepts we covered at first because they were simply so brand new and unfamiliar to me, so it took me a long time to find my stride by sitting down and playing around with all of these concepts until I understood them well enough to go through the lectures without getting a bit lost. This course taught me to investigate the little details of code that I didn't understand and search for that clarity instead of just accepting it as something that works and the compiler doesn't complain about. Constructors, pointers, references, inheritance, scoping, etc. All concepts that seem simple in hindsight but can be made endlessly complex if we didn't understand them fully. After several projects (which were all very fun and interesting to do), I can say that I am pretty comfortable with C++ as a language that I can add to repertoire. 

To be honest, I still can't say I fully understand what object-oriented programming is. But at least I have a pretty good idea of what it means to program with OOP principles now. I really enjoyed the articles that Dr. Downing assigned us to read weekly, and especially at the end of the semester where they became articles about certain OOP practices that I've never even thought about. And they just make so much sense. I feel like there's a lot more of OOP that is theoretical in nature to be discussed outside the scope of this class which focused a lot more on C++ as a language which I appreciated.

Last of all, I really must say that this class gave me hope that CS classes aren't all terribly dry when it comes to lectures. Instead of being talked at about large blocks of code, Professor Downing made every lecture feel like a discussion - everything was two-way: you ask a question, he answers it; he asks a question, you answer it. It is a constant back and forth between the lecturer and the students which I really enjoy even if the cold calls at the very beginning were absolutely terrifying because I was afraid I wouldn't know a certain concept. It kept you engaged and focused. I learned to enjoy to answer his questions even if I wasn't truly sure of the answer because when it comes to Professor Downing, he wasn't interested in the correct answer - he was interested in the process of getting to the correct answer. I absolutely love explanations that go to that level of gritty detail. The quizzes acted as attendance checks which I thought was a nice incentive to go to class. Most of them were incredibly fair, but if you get lost on a concept, you must get clarity on it immediately because concepts can carry on later and come back to bite you. However, some were a bit difficult (looking at those 30% average quizzes). I thought constructors would go away after a few quizzes when I was INCREDIBLY confused about them. HA. HA. HA. They never went away.

The only complaint I have about this class were the exams. I felt like I studied for the first exam in a very wrong way. I focused on the details and nuances of programming instead of looking at the big picture - know how to put all of these pieces together to make something instead of just appreciating each piece and its nuance. It feels contradictory to the nature of the lectures almost. Like one would tell you to focus on the small details of the code while the other would tell you to focus on the big picture. Perhaps it was simply my lack of maturity as a programmer, but I was completely uncomfortable and caught off-guard in the first exam with being asked to actually write and implement such large sections of code. As a result, I didn't do too well on the first exam. But I had no complaints - it was a completely fair exam in its own right. I told myself that I knew what to expect now, and that I knew how to study for the second exam. And so I did. And the second exam rolled around, and man, again, the questions were quite different from what I had expected. The second exam felt a lot longer and extensive than the first exam, and the concepts that it covered went beyond the scope of what we had covered in class together. I can't say I left the exam feeling too confident. 

Please, please change the platform of the exams. Canvas' text editor is archaic and terrible. I would rather type up code on Microsoft Word or Notepad or Sublime or literally anything else. I would even rather do it by hand. I couldn't tab on the editor. I couldn't select a line and delete it. I couldn't copy paste because the selection line was messed up with the pre-formatting. It was incredibly frustrating dealing with the editor when the exam was already a long one. Consider using a different page on Canvas for the problems, and let the students use a text editor to write their answers. With such long problems and detailed specifications (scrolling up and down between my answer and instructions wastes so much time), I think having a side-by-side problem/editor would be a lot more ergonomic. 

With the exam aside, this class was truly an amazing experience and has been one of my favorite classes so far at UT, even if it's been quite a struggle for me personally. I tried and gave it my best. I love Professor Downing's style of lecturing, and I am excited to say that I will be taking his SWE class next semester as well. Farewell, OOP! See you next semester, Dr. Downing. :)


