---
layout: post
title: 'Week Thirteen - Almost There!'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  This week was relatively low stress compared to other weeks where projects were due. My partner and I spent an entire meet just designing the solution to the Life problem (hint: the answer isn't 42) before implementation to make sure that we considered all possible design flaws that would cause a lot of time to fix. So, the implementation process was probably one of the smoothest I've ever been a part of in this class. Documentation and minor issues were easily debugged within a few meets, and ideas were tossed back and forth with ease. I feel that the Life project made me especially aware of how you can learn design from working on previous problems because my experience with Darwin greatly made the process of designing Life a lot less confusing simply because we were able to see how to make all the classes modular and integrate them together. 
  Besides the project, we spent a lot of time in class this week talking about abstract classes/methods and how to use the virtual keyword as well. Maybe it's because I finally started really reviewing the notes and thinking about the nuances of the code after class immediately that I feel like I understand this week's lectures a lot better than previous lectures. Or maybe it's because I feel like I finally have enough pieces to really be able to piece everything together in one coherent picture. And now everything feels like it's just filling in the missing puzzle pieces instead of trying to even have an idea of what the picture is. 
  
**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

  Absolutely nothing! Kind of. I guess there's finals coming up. Gotta make sure I don't suddenly fail out of all of my classes. Cause that would be pretty awful. But that's so far away. Like two weeks far away. Oh no, it's getting so close. 

**What to do next week?**

  It's Thanksgiving! As much as I want to study for exams all break, I'll be going home this week to cook Thanksgiving dinner because my parents are horribly lazy and make me do all the cooking every year (unless Mom's feeling particularly energetic and wants to make dessert). I'll probably be working a little bit on OS when I can, working on the OOP extra credit, and studying for the OOP and ARH exam next-next week. 
  I've also been working on personal projects here and there. So probably visit those every now and then - an incremental idle game that I wanted to do to practice Javascript and a music visualizer a la RPG character generation and making them interact based on musical metadata in C++. 

**Play of the Week**

  If you're interested at all in the area of security, then I've found this pretty "awesome" collection of security repos that range from bug bounties, CTFs, malware analysis, talks, pcaptools, pentest tools, malware scripts, and more! Just check it out. :)
  
  [Awesome Hacking](https://github.com/Hack-with-Github/Awesome-Hacking)
