---
layout: post
title: 'Week Ten - Halloween'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  This week was mostly spent on the new Darwin project. In class, we went over the specific details of the project including what the finalized product is supposed to look like, and how we were supposed to implement it (using OOP principles -- what the heck is OOP again?) After using setters and getters for a lot of my CS career (oops), it's been annoying to completely learn how to design this project again without setters and getters. Definitely reminds me that I'm in an OOP class though! Besides that, I don't think we covered too much this week. We had a presentation from a company on Wednesday which was interesting because it introduced more details behind a consulting firm which requires you to jump around from many different types of job types. Sounds exactly like something I'd be interested in for the first few years in industry because I really enjoy the breadth of skills rather than the depth, at least until I find something I know I'll invest most of my time into. There was the 50th anniversary of the CS department on Friday with so many interesting talks that I wanted to attend, but unfortunately, I had to go home this weekend. :(
  
**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

  OS exam 2 on Wednesday, and I lowkey still don't know all the details of how a page actually works. Registration isn't looking very good. Most of the CS classes I wanted to take are already waitlisted or closed, so I'm a little horrified at the prospect of having to take a random CS class that I don't think I'd be too interested in. Fingers crossed I'll get off the waitlist for SWE because I genuinely enjoy Downing's teaching style much more than any other professor in the CS department thus far. Also might look into the competitive programming class since it seems like a very fun and relatively low stress way to become a better programmer overall. Exam 1 results are also out for OOP, and my grade took quite a hit. Completely fair exam, and now that I know what Downing is looking for in his exams, I know what to focus on when studying for the next exam, and I'll hopefully do much better on that one.  
  
  That's okay. It's only Saturday. Three whole days to get my life together. 

**What to do next week?**

  Finish that Darwin project! I'm honestly having horrible flashbacks to GridWorld from AP computer science. Study for the OS exam. Do the OS project. Probably lose some sleep and get some white hairs. Oops, totally forgot I had an art history exam too on Thursday. Thanks for reminding me, blog. That would've been more tragic than SKT losing that third game in the world finals. 

**Play of the Week**

  Alas, I don't think I have any extremely cool tech tips this week. However, I've been doing a little bit more research into what kind of internships and type of jobs there are in the CS field. So far, I've found the subreddits relating to programming quite useful, and especially so this one where it's pretty much about CS careers and internships. 
  
[Reddit - CS Career Questions](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/)

Also another subreddit for interview questions!

[Reddit - Interview Questions](https://www.reddit.com/r/CS_Questions/)
