---
layout: post
title: 'Week Two - Collatzeral Damage'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This week, our first project was officially and formally introduced in class by Professor Downing. The design aspect and optimization of the program itself wasn't all that strenuous (considering the fact that Downing wrote pretty much the entire program except for the algorithm). What I found to be the most difficult was getting used to the workflow that required us to sit down and play around with the tools (pretty much why I love computers in general). That certainly took the longest time for me, and I'm still not quite sure I understand the full functionality of all of these tools yet, but I'm getting there!

We also discussed the usage of assertions and exceptions in class as well as the difference between a pre/post incrementor which is great! I feel like I finally understand how an exception actually works now after investigating it after the lecture instead of just haphazardly using it and pretending I know how it actually works. Kind of like sitting down and reading Tolstoy's War and Peace instead of reading a Sparknotes summary of it and saying you've conquered that beast of a book. I also got called on for the first time this week which was quite an adrenaline rush. I felt like a genius for knowing the basic command for a pipe (LET ME HAVE MY SMALL VICTORIES, OKAY).

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

The biggest problem I'm worried about right now is trying to get my hands on the OOP textbook. I've been able to get away with not buying a single textbook for the past year (because googling .pdfs), but much to my chagrin (does anyone else associate this word with Twilight and refuse to ever seriously use it again), I couldn't find the chapters for this book up to chapter 20. Which isn't really even a big problem. I just need to stop being in denial and throw sixty dollars at Amazon. Which really isn't that bad. That's only like ten McDonalds meals. Six Chipotles with guac. A No Man's Sky refund. 

Besides the textbook, I'm only a bit worried about the projects for OOP and OS stacking up in the future which didn't happen this time, fortunately! We'll just have to see. 

**What to do next week?**

I'm being very bad this weekend because I went home for Labor Day weekend to see a friend who's back in town. Which has resulted in pretty much zero productivity for all of my classes and nothing but a lot of snoozing around the house. In fact, just this morning, I woke up around noon. Ate lunch. And took another nap. Life is great. While browsing Reddit, I've also found a new fantasy book series to read (The Broken Empire series). Please send me book recommendations, anyone! 

Anyway, getting off that tangent, for the next week I'll be trying to familiarize myself with the nuances found in the tools that Downing has provided us. Still trying to wrap my head around C++ and play around with a few coding problems to really understand the language because I'm not too comfortable with it yet. I'm considering looking into the Longhorn Startup program a little bit because it seems like a fun personal project to engage in next semester when I'm more free and done with OS. Besides that, I'm also looking into various research assistant positions around the university mainly to get some lab experience for pre-med purposes. So far, I've found several in the neuroscience and linguistics department that is looking for an assistant for data management (get some databasing experience hopefully) and finally put my five years of Spanish classes to use for some bilingual studies labs. Besides all of that, I'll be tinkering around with some networking and security tools in my free time as well as play around with python scripting to make my own workflows a little more efficient.

Also, Overwatch Season 2 is out! Whooooooooooo! 

**Play of the Week**

If it hasn't been a little obvious, I'm very much interested in the security side of computer science. It can be a rather wide field with few points of entry, especially if you decide to excitedly google "HOW TO HACK THINGS" after watching an episode of Mr. Robot. Nonetheless, if you've ever heard of terms like "SQL Injection" or just wonder about the most common vulnerabilities that are exploited on the internet, then I've found this neat little website that explains the fundamentals of how these attacks work and how to defend against them. All gathered in one beautifully designed website! ELI5: CS Edition.

[Hacksplaining](https://www.hacksplaining.com/exercises)

On another note, if anyone is interested in computer security and doesn't really know where to start, I would suggest Jon Erickson's [Hacking: The Art of Exploitation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hacking:_The_Art_of_Exploitation). Perhaps a tad outdated in terms of technique, but I really enjoy the philosophy of hacking that is described in the text. In that security is not simply about using X to break Y, but it is a different way of critical thinking, to approach a problem in a way that is outside the box.

To next week!
