---
layout: post
title: 'Week Five - Let's build a wall I mean website"
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

Finished Netflix! Honestly, the syntax for Python made it much easier to implement the structure of the caches compared to C++. I feel like it was just much, much easier to write in terms of things to worry about. Other than that, it was my second week of work which involved a lot of Javascript learning and learning how to convert Angular 1 to Angular 2. More so, we've formed a giant group for Projects 3, 4, and 5. So let's see what the project is supposed to be. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

Still a little caught up on work, and I just generally feel very busy. I'm very excited to see what the project will be, so I can start planning on it with my team. Other than that, everyone seems to be going pretty well.

**What to do next week?**

Learn probability. Because I still have no idea what's going on. I'll probably be focusing on that this week as well as learning Typescript and Angular2 so I can follow the projects for work. Do the readings and lectures for this class.

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  We went over iterators this week, and originally I was very, very confused about the concept of what iterators are. But after going through them in OOP, I feel like iterators are relatively less scary concepts to deal with in Python. 

**Play of the Week**
  
  This is a nice little chapter on web scraping. I've recently used it for a project to scrape things off the internet (mainly Southwest Airlines for plane ticket prices) and to let it tell me when prices fall below a certain threshhold. 
  
  [Web Scrape](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/chapter11/)
