---
layout: post
title: 'Week Seven - Let's build a website!'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This past week was a littttttle bit crazy for me. I had the parser project for my compilers due. I had a probability test. I had the SWE test. And I had a medical terminology test. All while working too. It was a bit of a balancing act, but I made it through! I am honestly very happy with the exam format change. Thank you so much, Professor Downing for not making us implement and code in Canvas because that was by far my least favorite aspect of OOP last semester. The multiple choice format is much more in depth and feels more in line with what the class should be like (like the quizzes - it focuses on the details). 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

My team and I still need to sit down and talk about the website. But I'm really glad that we'll finally be starting the project this week. Hopefully tomorrow we'll talk about the details more in class so that we can really know what to focus on. Other than that, I have two more exams this week. I can't wait for spring break! I'll be doing some traveling, so maybe I'll get a chance to relax. Doubtful since I'll have even more exams waiting for me when I come back...And I'll be working remotely.

**What to do next week?**

Two exams this week! Linear and compilers both on Thursday. It's still a bit of a ways away, but I really need to start studying for compilers because I've been doing the projects in class instead of paying attention to the lectures. So that's kind of been flying away from my head.

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was mainly focused on the idea of packing and unpacking items and structures. I've only briefly played with unpacking tuples before, so it was really nice to see all of the cool little things you could do with default args and wild args. Now I finally understand what the documentation for print means in Python, haha. I've never really understand what the end= really meant, but now I know! 
  
Also I am extremely happy about the exam format change. Multiple choice is so much better than implementation both for me and for the graders. I can only imagine how annoying it must be to grade practically broken code (about as annoying as coding in Canvas text editor, I'd imagine). 

**Play of the Week**
  
  From last week, I was talking about musical generation and art generation tools. Magenta is one of Google's attempts of approaching this on the musical front. I've been reading more into the API and messing around with this code lately.
  
  [Magenta](https://github.com/tensorflow/magenta)
