---
layout: post
title: 'Week Twelve - To Build a Castle on Sand'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This week spent working and fixing little chunks of the website that had been broken previously. We went for functionality the past phase, and now we're in the process of refactoring and polishing things up. We've also broken our three 2-man teams into 3 2-man teams now that database is practically finished, and we have one person from it in each team to always have an actively working person. Besides that, this week was mostly spent studying for my linear algebra exam and doing my compilers project.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

Not too worried about anything in the future. I think our team has learned to respect the website project from phase 2, and now we're doing it in more sizable chunks. We've made some solid design decisions and cards to manage how the team will proceed forward. The only thing I'm slightly concerned about are my quiz grades in SWE which are not looking too great. All of the extra credit that's been available have been during my work hours so I can never quite get them.

**What to do next week?**

Next week will be just as work-heavy as the phase 2 project. Front-end especially will be spending a lot of time polishing up the appearance of the website and making sure everything works perfectly. I will be focusing on the styling and appearance of the website as well as optimization and speed of the loading. 

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was focused on refactoring a lot of code concepts such as extraction, replacement, removal, and after Downing has asked me for the one hundredth time (although not directly), I'm pretty sure that I do not, in fact, know Java. :(

**Play of the Week**
  
  I spent a lot of this weekend traveling and on the airplane, so I didn't have access to th ewonderful resource of Google without paying up a hefty fee. I was talking to my coworkers about this, and he mentioned an offline API documentation tool he used called Dash, and it's quite a nice interface!
  
  [Dash](https://kapeli.com/dash)
