---
layout: post
title: 'Week Two - Collatz'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  It's nice to get back in the flow of classes again! I'm trying to stay on top of things this semester as opposed to last semester where every week felt like I was rushing everywhere and here to even survive (granted, I blame it on the many naps I take). 
  
  Going back into classes with Downing has been really fun. It's an excellent excuse to learn Python really well (especially Python 3 since I've stuck with Python 2.7 for a while). I feel like I've already learned a lot of nuances about Python that I never really paid attention to before, but I'm not surprised, he gave me a lot of epiphanies in C++ with OOP too!
  
  I started the Collatz project, and for the most part, have finished. I've tried an L1, L2, eager, lazy cache, but they've all been too slow, so I guess I will try to do the meta cache last.
  
**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

Nothing too worrisome! I've been tinkering around with Python for a while, so I don't feel too completely out of my depth with the language. However, the Collatz problem has really given me a deeper appreciation for C++. For OOP, all I had to do was implement a lazy cache and it worked perfectly. But now, I have to generate a meta cache or be a little more clever with my optimizations. It's both fun and annoying at the same time just because I have my compilers project due on Thursday and my first exam on Friday already.

**What to do next week?**

  Just get the reading out of the way for SWE. For the most part, I've found the Javascript textbook very interesting, but the XP one has been rather dull. Maybe it's hindsight bias, but the points it stresses seem rather intuitive if not just common business ettiquette. That and the XP readings are like 70 pages long compared to the JS one. 
  
  I need to finish my Collatz project (just need optimizations. Finish my compilers project (just need to interpret numbers left). Stay caught up with linear and probability homework, and enjoy the challenges of the competitive programming problems! Ironically, I thought competitive programming would be a nice excuse to practice more Python outside of SWE, but the first graph problem has already made me turn back to C++. Just because I feel like it'd take much more time and effort to implement something in Python that I could easily do in C++. Maybe next week once I have more time, I'll do that instead of falling back to a comfort language. 

**How is Downing Experience thus far?**

  My experience of the classroom so far has been positive and as expected. Downing is very detail-oriented and goes in depth with many of the Python concepts as well as cross-over explanations into other languages like Java. Making these comparisons when he explains grants a level of clarity and fundamental understanding that clicks for me unlike many other lecturers where I'll usually have to write down a note and go read about it later somewhere or discuss it with a classmate.
  
  We went over the idea of exceptions this week, and I'm very eager to see the examples he'll use to demonstrate why and when we should use exceptions besides the three other ways of passing messages between functions. I've always seen exceptions as a sort of mystical creature that I'll occassionally see, but I never really see its absolute benefit from the standard check if a variable is -1 or the like.
  
  Again, the cold calling keeps everyone on their toes and keeps them attentive as well as being great practice for the workplace and interviews. Because the entire class is like a discussion and not simply a lecture.

**Play of the Week**
  
  I've been trying to find fun personal projects to do, and I thought now would be a great time to start looking into neural networks and machine learning some more. After some poking around on the python ideas website, I found an interesting article on how to do a recurrent neural network which would take music and compose its own music based on the style and theme of the music it's been fed. 
  
  A great and fun read if you're interested in music and neural networks!
  
  [Music with Neural Networks](http://www.hexahedria.com/2015/08/03/composing-music-with-recurrent-neural-networks/)
