---
layout: post
title: 'Week Eleven - No React'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This week was mostly spent working on the website for this class. Working with React as an injection into our HTML has been quite a struggle because we haven't followed the normal React convention of single paged applications. Then, along with the HTML, we've had many problems connecting everything. Needless to say, it's been quite the sleepless week. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

So many choices for the components! Not sure which way/style to pick. And in the process, it feels like I'm learning a bunch of other tools at the same time such as Node and Webpack. And to learn those, I need to learn other things. We've found out that we set up our website structure really oddly for React. So, we'll probably have to handle that in the refactoring process of phase 3.  

**What to do next week?**

Next week will be relatively more relaxing. I'll be studying for my tests on Thursday and Friday, but besides that, not too many things to worry about. I'll probably be handling the last phase of my compilers project which might give me a slight bit of trouble if I don't start in time. But other than that, I'll be traveling to Baltimore this weekend again, so that'll be fun.

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was focused on database queries and the many, many difference ways you could handle something like searching for a specific X within a Y that's a subset of Z. And just many other things like that. Because I wasn't really part of the database team, it was pretty interesting to see the power of SQL in action and how powerful it can be but also how unexplicit it can be sometimes.

**Play of the Week**
  
  Nevermind, I take it all back. React is making me sad. But, shameless plug of GitKraken again here. It's one of my favorite Git UI tools, and I will always keep recommending it!
  
  [GitKraken](https://www.gitkraken.com)
