---
layout: post
title: 'Week Nine - The Website'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This week was mostly spent working on the website. Alex, the other team member working on front-end with me mainly worked on the static pages while I worked on styling the pages. I spent a large chunk of my time working on the carousel for the front page which I'm pretty happy with. I might just need to adjust the text transitions around a bit, but I'm very proud of making it fit the monochromatic color scheme. Besides that, I've spent half of this week still traveling, so I've been slightly lost in terms of what is going on in class. But I'm sure I'll catch up.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

A little bit worried about meeting with the group still. Especially for phase 2 which requires a lot of communication between everyone in order to connect the back-end to the front-end. I'm not too free in terms of scheduling while I'm working. But we'll see because it didn't turn out to be too awful for phase 1 although we were pretty independent in terms of the groups.

**What to do next week?**

Finally starting the process of making the HTML/CSS modular and fixing any of the minor bugs still left in the pages. Then we'll begin the transfer process to Angular 2 which will be slightly annoying to set up the Node and making it work with GCP and deploying with Flask.

Hopefully I'll also be able to finish Breath of the Wild before spring break ends. :)

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was focused on the idea of SQL and database relational sequences. We worked through implementations of project, cross-join, and select. Working through the Python's poor man's version of these relationships was very interesting and integral to our understanding of how the sequences work.

**Play of the Week**
  
  As I'll be working on frontend for the first phase of the project, one of the tools we're using for front-end is called Masonry which is a Javascript framework that allows boxes to be dynamically resized and expanded. 
  
  [Flexbox Grids](http://flexboxgrid.com)
