---
layout: post
title: 'Week Ten - Angulary Reacts Only'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This week was mostly spent trying to figure out AngularJS and setting everything up. After messing up with it for a while, we decided to switch over to React which was actually a lot easier for what we wanted to do with the project. It'd be pages with bits of dynamic info loaded into grids, sorts, and etc. And we could add in and take out components whenever we wanted to. Plus everything would still be in Javascript for the most part whereas Typescript is still really strange even though I've been working with it for a while for work. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

So many choices for the components! Not sure which way/style to pick. And in the process, it feels like I'm learning a bunch of other tools at the same time such as Node and Webpack. And to learn those, I need to learn other things. 

**What to do next week?**

Finish creating these components in React. Then trying to test out everything with dummy data in JSON formatting to see if the grids will populate correctly. Then, connect the backend API calls to the front-end. And hopefully everything will be A-okay.

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was focused on how data is stored. Primarily in the concepts of XML and JSONs (we will be using JSONs for our own project, so that was interesting to learn about). I feel like we spent a lot of time on XML but not all that much on the nuances of JSON. Or maybe there's just not that much about JSONs. 

**Play of the Week**
  
  Still working the front-end for this second phase of the project. It's funny cause we had orignally decided that everyone would trade positions and swap so we'd learn all the tools. I don't know if it's true for the other sections as well (backend and database), but the frontend feels like my baby now, and I need to make sure it graduates college and has a good, happy life. 
  
  So for this week, I've been eyeing the style of Material UI which is a really popular framework for React that recreates Google's Material Design in React Components. Gotta make sure my son looks good on his second date with the graders.
  
  [Material UI](http://www.material-ui.com/#/)
