---
layout: post
title: 'Week Fifteen - The Actual Finale'
published: true
---
**Thank you for another amazing semester, Dr. Downing!**

As I've said of Dr. Downing's Object-Oriented Programming class, I cannot recommend his classes enough. 

I remember last semester, walking into Operating Systems, and after taking several computer science classes at UT, none of them had been able to really captured the spark that had drawn me into computer science in the first place. Sure, there were several cool projects like the musical writing notation in 314 or the binary bomb lab in assembly in 429 that reminded me why I went into this field, but none of them had really captured the beauty and simplicity behind code. 

Dr. Downing's classes have gone back to the very basics of "Hello, World" in their respective languages of C++ and Python to tell me all of the little secrets of the languages that I had never even thought of before. And to finally be able to sit here and know that I know these things and of the many other things that I do not know is a step I needed to take in the pursuit of knowledge. His classes are amazingly well-structured in terms of schedules, readings, and lectures. Projects are strict but also are fluid enough to allow the students each year to explore their limits and not adhere to a simple rubric. 

Topics are thoroughly explored and almost every corner case is introduced and examined. I especially loved the variety of topics in Software Engineering because they covered everything from Python functionality to web data formats to refactoring and tidbits of other information in between. 

The projects themselves (the big project after Collatz/Netflix) were amazing and very fun to work with. I had a very reliable and great group to work with this semester, and even though we had some problematic scheduling conflicts in phase 2, I can say that I am proud of our product at the end of the year. Working on the website has really allowed me to learn a lot of industrial and modernly used tools that simply being in a normal classroom would not have taught me. I've begun to learn and appreciate the front end of web development this semester especially so becauase I began working a job at a startup alongside school during the semester. I can confidently say that the things I've learned from OOP such as Docker, Git, and just a general sense of organizing a workflow.

I'm very, very happy that Dr. Downing listened to my suggestions and decided to change his test formats from short-answer coding problems (which were frustrating and ridiculous in Canvas' text editor) to multiple choice questions. I feel like they're much more true to his class as the quizzes were and perfectly encapsulates students' ability to understand the nuance of concepts. 

I have honestly loved every single one of Dr. Downing's lectures and classes. I cannot recommend him enough, and I really hope that he teaches another class here at UT before I graduate so that I can have the chance to take him again. He's one of my favorite professors here thus far and probably my favorite lecturer by far in the CS department. Please take him before graduating! I would honestly love to see him in a more crucial and core subject in the CS department such as 312 or 314 because his attention to detail and grasp of the fundamentals would honestly be so well suited to creating a strong foundation for incoming freshmen.

Thank you very much for an amazing semester (and year), Dr. Downing! I hope you have a wonderful summer, and I look forward to seeing you around the campus as well as in the future when I return from whatever magical company I'll be working for! :)
