---
layout: post
title: 'Week Thirteen - Presentables'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

This week was spent mostly working on developing the style and debugging little things on the website. We knew better than to start last minute like last time. This week was actually not too bad besides that! I had the project and a bunch of homework due on Thursday night. Besides that, I had a medical terminology test on Friday.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

I'm slightly worried about the exam in a week or two. I feel like I don't really have a good concept of the ideas we've covered during refactoring last week. And I usually find textbook explanations of the concepts long-winded and not concise enough to really enjoy reading. But maybe I'm being too nitpicky about technical textbooks!

**What to do next week?**

Next week is a relatively lax week. I have a lot of exams the upcoming week (including SWE), and our group will have to get together and prepare just a little bit for the things that we need to do for the exam. Also need to get started on writing my code generator project for compilers! So glad to be done with the last phase, it was so annoyingly long and tedious. 

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was focused on refactoring a lot of code by using concepts such as abstraction and polymorphism. It's crazy that after programming for a while, I still feel like I don't really have a very clear grasp on these very basic programming concepts. Like what the heck is abstraction really used for? What is the potential of its power that I don't know? I feel like I've only scratched the surface, and I'm still feeling a little bit lost. But I'm slowly being enlightened over the years.

**Play of the Week**
  
  I spent a lot of this weekend reading into more modern web applications. It's absolutely fascinating to read about front-end and web development because it's a constantly evolving creature in itself with constant trends and changes. It's a lot like following fashion, and I'd really like to dip my toes into that world. So, I found this very neat website that describes the entire idea of web development and skills needed as well as how to develop those skills. And it tracks these changes throughout the years.
  
  [Front End Dev](https://frontendmasters.com/books/front-end-handbook/2017/)
