---
layout: post
title: 'Week Three - Netflix and Pickle'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

Finished up my Collatz project as well as my lexer in Compilers. Having the Collatz constantly time out in HackerRank in Python really made me appreciate the speed of C++ which I had failed to see before because I could only see how beautiful Python looked as a language. 

Compilers is also keeping my memory of C fresh in my mind in case I ever wanted to go back and delve into systems again (doubtful). 

Outside of that, I got a part-time job to develop a web app downtown! So that'll be new and exciting. I'm trying my best to get ahead on projects, so that I won't be overwhelmed.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

I remember Netflix as being particularly annoying for me in OOP just because I wasn't used to C++ yet or the idea of serialization. It took me quite a while just to figure out a data structure to manage the problem, but hopefully it won't be as terrible in SWE. This time, I'll have a general idea of what to do already, and the only thing that lies in the way is learning how to use pickle and how to translate the idea over into Python.

**What to do next week?**

  Just get the reading out of the way for SWE. For the most part, I've found the Javascript textbook very interesting, but the XP one has been rather dull. Maybe it's hindsight bias, but the points it stresses seem rather intuitive if not just common business ettiquette. That and the XP readings are like 70 pages long compared to the JS one. 
  
  I'll set up the basic framework and workflow for Netflix. After the class on Monday, I'll probably try to get most of it out of the way, or at least do the research on what things I'll need to know (Pickle).
  
  For the most part, I'll be focusing on linear algebra and probability this week because I have an exam on Thursday, and I need to catch up on the notes in probability because everything still feels a little unintuitive to me. 
  
  Also competitive programming problems! They're pretty fun so far, but I'm quickly getting bored of the graph-centric theme so far. Hopefully, we'll jump into other algorithms after this week. 

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  It's amazing how Downing has the ability to make you doubt even the most basic of concepts when he asks you a question in class because sometimes it feels like a trick question. Is it an int? Is that REALLY the type? And in doing so, he reinforces your confidence or changes a misconception. 
  
  I really appreciate how he went back to the basics this week instead of jumping into more advanced topics immediately. Just looking at how the primitive types in Python works really gave me clarity on their interactions with each other and as standalone structures in an environment. With any luck, next week will do much of the same and change my idea of whether or not I even know the basics of Python.

**Play of the Week**
  
  An arbitrary puzzle-esque game that involves manipulation of snippets of code and writing scripts to do what you want. A fun little challenge for Python.
  
  [The Python Challenge](http://www.pythonchallenge.com)
