---
layout: post
title: 'Week Six - Test Incoming'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

Not too much of a stressful week. This week was mostly spent around with fiddling around with the new features that Downing introduced to us in class - map and zip. I've used them before for competitive programming problems, but I never really understood the nuances of what they actually did (that they were generators in themselves and objects - especially after Python 3). Learning how map and zip worked beneath the surface was really interesting too, and I'm glad we got the chance to implement them in class using the new features we learned about like yield. I think I understand them a lot better because of that, so I'll have to see how that goes when the exam comes around next week!

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

My team and I need to decide on a theme for what our website will be about. I think everyone has their mind on the exam or other things, so we haven't really sat down to mesh out any details yet. Besides that though, there's nothing really too bothersome to worry about.

**What to do next week?**

I have several exams this week, one of which includes the one for this class. I'm more worried about probability than anything just because I feel like I'm getting very lost in all of the mathematical notations even if I can understand the problems and do them just fine. I've never really been mathematically inclined, so every time I see a summation notation, I almost instinctively want to write a for loop or something.

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was spent focusing on the underlying implementations of map, zip, range, and other generator functions as well as how generators work. It's really fun to work with generators this semester, but maybe that's because I've taken OOP before and have a feel for how these lectures are going to go. Last semester, I remember around this point I was so completely lost in the idea of classes and constructors and everything about making a class. I'm pretty excited to learn more about classes in Python at this point, but they seem to be very odd creatures as compared to Java and C++.

**Play of the Week**
  
  I've still been fiddling around with neural networks and deep learning music to generate music as of late. I've found this article about several deep learning tools in musical analysis which also includes one of Google's projects, Magenta.
  
  [Deep Learning Music Tools](http://www.asimovinstitute.org/analyzing-deep-learning-tools-music/)
