---
layout: post
title: 'Week One - SWEEEEEEEEEE'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

  This week was back to school week! After a relatively relaxing winter break searching for internships and jobs for the semester, it was nice to come back to Austin and see everyone again. I've just recently finished an interview downtown for a web development part-time position, so I'll have to see how that goes! Other than that, I've been spending most of my time going back and forth trying to get all of my classes in order.
  
  For my CS classes this semester, I'm taking SWE (obviously) with Downing, conspilers (see what I did there, hehe) with Novak, and competitive programming. I took OOP with Downing last semester, and it was one of my favorite classes thus far in the CS department, so I'm very much looking forward to SWE because of its use of Python rather than C++.
  
  For my other classes, I'm taking linear algebra, probability and statistics, as well as medical terminology. The first two are for cores to take my other classes while the third fills a flag as well as a personal interest of mine in medicine. 
  
  As for my impression of SWE thus far, it's exactly what I expected it to be. As I've said before, OOP with Downing last semester was one of my favorite classes so far, and he's one of my favorite professors, and we'll be working with one of my favorite languages! I love his style of lecturing where it feels more like a conversation with the students rather than a one-sided regurgitation, and the cold-calling is terrifying at first but after the first couple of times, I feel like it helps you appreciate the class more. I can't wait to see what the big project will be like.
  
**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

Honestly, I don't think there's too much in the way that I'm worried about. I'm working extra hard to stay on top of my classes this semester, and the only concern I can see myself having with SWE is getting used to Python 3 instead of the Python 2.7 that I've always worked with. The big three-part project that's coming up in SWE sounds a little intimidating too, but I can't wait to start it! 

**What to do next week?**

  I really need to get on all of the reading for SWE - I've already found PDFs for all the textbooks, so it's just a matter of reading through them. I've only finished the JS one so far, and it was very pretty interesting. I'll have to see how the XP book goes. Other than that, it's just a matter of keeping up with the material and workload for all of my other classes! 
  
  Maybe watch the NA LCS for League. :')

**Play of the Week**
  
  I found this transcript of Raymond Hettinger's Pycon 2013 talk about refactoring certain code snippets into more efficient and optimized forms as well as revealing some additional features in Python 3 that many have not fully come to appreciate since Python 2.
  
  It is a nice read (or watch) if only to see some of the conventions of Python if you're more used to languages like Java and C++.
  
  [Transforming Code into Beautiful, Idiomatic Python](https://gist.github.com/JeffPaine/6213790)
