---
layout: post
title: 'Week Four - So many things, so little time'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

First week of work! Overall, it's been a little exhausting going to work for four hours after five hours of classes. The experience and money is quite nice though. Hopefully, this'll ramp up my resume a bit for the internships I'll be applying for. 

Besides that, this week was mainly focused on just starting the Netflix problem (set-up is mostly done, just need optimization). Besides that, I had a linear algebra exam on Thursday, and a whole bunch of projects due the next week I've started (including Netflix). 

Also attended the ACM programming competition on Friday evening which was quite fun! Albeit I'm in the competitive programming class, so I had to attend. But man, every time I do a programming competition, I realize how restrictive Python can be in its memory stack and in its speed. I find myself wondering if the ease of Python is really enough to mask its inefficiency. Or maybe I'm just really terrible at Pythonic programming.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

A little caught on time because of work. And that's something I'm really worried about. All the free time I've had to do projects and study as well as relax has suddenly been dedicated to work time. I'll really have to learn how to manage my time effectively which will be rather hard considering I'm a bit of a hedonist (sorry, I really like my video games and shows, okay - what else is life worth living for?) Besides that, I think I really want to amp up my competitive programming skills so at the same time, I really want to be able to just do a bunch of practice problems and eventually catch a pattern that will just click and make everything easier.

**What to do next week?**

I need to start my compilers project which is due on Tuesday. It's just the same thing except using yacc or something (yeah, I realllllly need to start it). Finish Netflix which is due Thursday. Study for my medterms exam on Friday. I also really need to catch up on probability because it's quickly getting a little too mathy for my tastes. 

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  We went back to the basics of the Python variables and containers this week which was really enlightening. I never really understood the underlying structures of the containers and their power and limitations. Or that only immutable things can be hashable. And a whole bunch of other tidbits that I've honestly never really thought about until the compiler complained. I guess it's a nice way to really make me think about the design as a whole instead of just running along and plugging in code until it works.

**Play of the Week**
  
  This is a cool little tool that can replicate Python functionality in your very own command line for extreme efficiency that you could use inside your terminal instead of writing a script for it.
  
  [Pyp](http://opensource.imageworks.com/?p=pyp)
