---
layout: post
title: 'Week Fourteen - The Finale'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

Not too much to do this week! Just a lot of studying here and there for exams the upcoming week. I think it's a nice little breather before all of the classes try to massacre us. A little nice party here, a festive little song there, just like a red wedding. After doing front dev for this class, I'm inspired to do a little more research into front dev as a professional field and look at the abundance of tools available. 

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

I'm very worried about the next few weeks because finals are coming, and I don't actually know when any of them are. That's a little bit of a bad thing. Otherwise, I'm feeling pretty okay. Which is not okay because I should be in a general sense of panic.

**What to do next week?**

Slightly worried about my exams, especially the SWE one. I also have a statistics one the afternoon of, so I'll be cramming for two exams on Thursday. I also have another exam in medterms on Friday. I also have a codegen project due in Compilers on Friday. But other than that, not too bad. So, I'll have to study for all of those! Which will be okay on any other week. Except I got sick last Friday, and I'm actively dying right now. But that's okay. I've lost my voice, but it's pretty cool and deep tbh. So that's something. 

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was the last week of quizzes! Then we just moved onto presentations which I've really liked. I'm really glad we didn't go the first day cause now we know what to do and what not to do. And just generally what to expect. I just wanted to say that this has been an amazing class, and I've learned a lot. Thank you, Dr. Downing! I hope that you'll create another class besides SWE and OOP that I can take at UT in the next two years. :)

**Play of the Week**
  
  This is an API that we use at work to automatically generate documentation for our API. It generates API client libraries, server stubs, and documentation given an OpenAPI Spec.
  
  [Swagger](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen)
