---
layout: post
title: 'Week Eight - Spring Break'
published: true
---
**What on earth did I do this past week?**

Even more exams this week! And unfortunately they were both stacked right on top of each other on Thursday. For the most part, I spent the week studying for them and finishing up any other homework that were scattered here and there (probability). I had to cram a lot for compilers because for the most part, I've just been doing the projects and not really following along with the notes. But fortunately, it went really well! 

Besides that, I spent this week meeting up with my team members (on half the days, I blame work, sorry friendos). But I feel like we've ironed out a pretty solid roadmap for what we're each responsible for and how we're going to get things done.

**What is that ominously black cloud on the horizon?**

I'm a little bit worried about meeting up with my group members for the project. Between the trips I have planned for the next month and work, it's really hard to find a time where everyone can meet up with each other unless it's late. Combined with exams and other classes, it gets a bit much. For the most part, we've divided our taks pretty well so it shouldn't be too bad.

**What to do next week?**

I'll be traveling for most of Spring break! I plan on working remotely on my part of the project whenever possible as well as studying for some of my other classes because we'll have yet another exam when we get back from spring break...

Hopefully I'll also be able to finish Breath of the Wild before spring break ends. :)

**How is the Downing Experience thus far?**

  This week was focused on the idea of decorators. I feel like I still haven't fully grasped the concept of scoping and closures in terms of decorators yet, but I'm getting there. I've encountered these in many, many places before, so now it's really nice to delve into detail on how they actually function.

**Play of the Week**
  
  As I'll be working on frontend for the first phase of the project, I thought it'd be cool to introduce some useful tools I've run into and used before. This is the idea of flex boxes which uses the flex display property to automatically and dynamically adjust blocks.
  
  [Flexbox Grids](http://flexboxgrid.com)
